Originally alphabets were written entirely in majuscule
letters, spaced between well-defined upper and lower
bounds. When written quickly with a pen, these tended
to furn into roUnder and much simoler forms. It js from
thsse that the first minuscule hands develooed. the
half-uncials and cursive minuscule, which no longer
stayed bound between a pair of lines. [14] These in turn
formed the foundations for the Carolingian minuscule
script, developed by Alcuin for use in the court of Charle
magne, which quickly spread across Europe. The
advantage of the minuscule over majuscule was
imrbrowétdL faxsfer reaaalAabîlihr
IIICr alIiGII1S OI Wi ihl ipiI wVU>7Ao II L.AIebeU vroulI Wnr Ou1n"O>r"
jnto four eras:
* Greek majuscule (9th-3rd century BC) in contrast to
the Greek uncial script (3rd century BC - 12th century
AD1 and the [ater Greek minuscule
* Roman majuscule (7th century BC - 4th century AD) in
contrast to the Roman uncial (4th-8th century BC),RC
man Half Uncial, and minuscule
* Carolingian majuscule (4th-8th century AD) in contrast
to the Carolingian minuscule (around 780 - 12th
centbury]
* Gothic majuscule ('13th and 14th century), in contrast
to the early Gothic (end of 11ih to 13th century),
Gothic (14th centurj), and late Gothic (1Sth century]
marnlsslleê.
I11 UouAuil 1i UpioiPejun Iunn n ionn ome uel nor uai uo oauii "ysb'rio" or " r
AD (when it was destroyed) have been found that have
been written Ín old Roman cursive, where the early
formns of minuscule letters "d", "h"" and ""r"", for êxample,
can afready be recognized. According to papyrology's
Knut Kleve, "The theory, then, that the lower-case letters
have been developed from the fifth century uncials and
the ninth century Carolingian minuscule seems to be
wrong.""15] Both majuscule and minuscule letters
existed. but the difference betwWeen fhe two variants was
Initially stylistic rather than orthographic and the writing
system was still basically unicameral: a given handtwrit
ten document could use either one sfvle or the other bul
these were not mixed. European languages, except for
Ancient GSreek and Latin, did not make the case distinc
tion before about 1300
Traditionally, certain letters were rendered differently
according to a set of rules. ln particular, those letters that
began sentences or nouns were made larger and often
writer n a distinct script. There was no fìxed cabiteliza
tion system until the early 18th century. The English
language eventually dropped the rule for nouns, while
the German language kept it. Similar developments have
taken p lace in other alphabets. The lower-case Script for
the Greek alphabet has its origins in the 7th century and
acquired its quadrilinear form in the Sth century. Over
time, uncial letterforms were increasingly mixed into the
scriot. Tbe earliest dated Greek ower-case text ìs the
Uspenski Gospels (MS 461) in the year 835.
